Hello everybody and welcome back.
Let's just have a look at a couple of renders so we've got this render here which is what we did in
the last lecture.
However what we can do is change the camera properties and give it a completely different feel to it.
It's also in a slightly different position.
But you can see that we can see more of our board.
And that's because we've made this particular camera a wide angle.
It can get a lot into one picture.
And similarly here we've got our standard camera looking down on the board and we can flatten the perspective
by having it a telescopic camera and see it changes but not that much but we do need to reposition the
cameras as well because this has an effect of zooming as well if we're not too careful.
So let's hop into a blender and find out more okay.
So in front of us here we have our standard camera.
Let's go and have a look at how far camera instead so going to select the camera controlling zero and
have a look at it.
Now if we go to the properties of the camera itself.
So on the right hand cycle down to the Object data and we have a couple of settings for the particular
camera.
I'm going to name it.
Camera file.
So I if I have to reference it here I've got the right camera.
And here we go.
We've got the type of camera.
Typically you're going to have a perspective camera.
If you're doing something like an architectural drawing that doesn't require perspective in it so all
heights are the same no matter what the distances then all the graphic would be your choice.
I'm going to leave is perspective for the moment.
The first thing we're going to do is twiddle with the focal length.
What's this mean.
Well the lower the focal length the wider the lens will be which will have the appearance of zooming
out.
But what it does do is give you that wide angle look we saw earlier.
However the opposite is true if we go the other way.
So if we go to say two hundred it has the appearance of zooming in.
And if this does happen of course we then need to go and move the camera back slightly so that we get
the picture back in frame because we're changing the effective zoom of how light is entering the camera
and of course we can just move it about and we get that more flattened image.
In general if you were going for a more zoomed in shot this is how you would do it.
You would not just move the camera closer.
That is another option of course.
Now let's have a look at the near one to really demonstrate the focal length being changed at 50 mil
at the moment.
I'm going to change my camera here.
It's a camera far and I'm going to change my camera here to camera near.
Oh I'm a poet.
There we go.
And let's set that maybe 24 and then we go we can see more straightaway.
And of course we may have to then reposition or zoom in the camera.
Now one thing that you can get into is this issue here we're now too close.
So let's say we were really extreme.
You can see it's now clipping parts of the scene in order to sort that out.
You need to come down to clip start distance.
Then we can pull it all back in something that's very important and easy to miss.
If you're very close or indeed very far from your object because it's the camera's distance from your
objects not necessarily what you can actually see in the frame and there we go a nice quick tip on managing
your camera properties.
Now what I'd like to do is a quick challenge is go ahead and adjust your camera's lens settings so that
you get some more interesting looks.
If you need to add more cameras to your scene do so especially if you don't want to lose one of your
previous settings.
Remember multiple cameras and not just for different views there are also four cameras with different
settings balls over the air.
Now give that a go and I'll see you all in the next lecture.